---
title: "How can I activate and validate milestones?"
audience: company
source: shakers_faq
ordinal: 19
relpath: shakers_faq/company/019-how-can-i-activate-and-validate-milestones.md
tags: [faq]
---

# How can I activate and validate milestones?

**Q:** How can I activate and validate milestones?

**A:** You can manage milestones during a project from the project's "Dashboard" tab. Payment method at Shakers 🔐 Shakers Payments We only work through this option, as Shakers acts as an intermediary in all cases. Therefore, Shakers will be your only service provider (so you won't have to register a new supplier every time you hire a freelancer), and Shakers will be responsible for making payments to the talents. In this model, each invoice will be linked to a milestone that the freelancer will include in their proposal. With the aim, on the one hand, of protecting your money and, on the other, of guaranteeing your solvency to the freelancer, an "escrow" methodology is used, which works as follows: You decide when the freelancer should start working on each milestone. To do this, you must activate the milestone by making a payment to Shakers for the total value of that milestone. Shakers will hold the money until the work is completed. When the freelancer completes the work, you will have to validate it. Only when you have validated the work will we send the money we held to the freelancer, thus ensuring that you only pay for work that has been completed and validated. In addition, in our working model, Shakers provides you with a Project Success, an expert in your project area who will support and monitor the project, helping you to manage any possible disputes. 🤔 Check out the article  where we explain in depth how milestones are managed and how our payment system works. Reasons why a project may be put on hold We'll tell you ⬇️ We don't want to reach that point for anything in the world! That's why at Shakers we try to facilitate and simplify the entire work process as much as possible, but there are situations in which we can no longer intervene. Here are the reasons why a project may be halted: Loss of contact: when one of the two parties (client - talent/s) disappears and we are unable to contact them after repeated attempts. If the party involved is unable to respond and the project success manager is also unable to contact them, the project is halted, and different actions will be taken depending on which party is absent: If the client does not respond: if we have tried to contact them repeatedly and have not received a response, we ask the talent to put their work on hold and inform them of the situation.
At that point, the talent decides whether to continue with the project and wait for the client to respond, or to close their work up to that point and look for another project to participate in.
If the talent wishes to close their work, they will be paid for the milestone they were involved in at that time and the project will be closed. The client will be informed of these actions by email and will be rejected from the platform. If the talent does not respond: if we have tried to contact them repeatedly and have not received a response from the talent, we will get to work to cover for them, trying to ensure that this has as little impact as possible on the established timings.
The talent and the client will be informed that we are going to call on one of our Top Shakers to take over the tasks that were being carried out by the talent and that we do not know if they are being fulfilled due to the lack of response. That milestone and subsequent ones taken care of by the Top Shaker will be paid to that talent, and not to the talent who is not responding to us.
At the same time, we will proceed to reject the talent from the platform for having breached one of our most important policies Non-payment: if the invoice associated with a milestone is not paid by the client on the established date, the talent involved will be informed of this fact and may decide whether to continue developing the milestone or, on the contrary, to halt the project until we can guarantee payment. It is important for our talents to know that we guarantee payment with our secure payment system , so if the first part of the system fails, the project may be halted. Even so, we want you to know that we are willing to help you with anything you need, and that before reaching this point, you can talk to your Project Success about any problems you have with the project so that we can find a solution for both parties. We want to make your life easier! 🍀
